Rewrite Beatmaps and Beatmapsets (#4652)
ppy/osu-wiki: wiki/Beatmaps/en.md

## Overview

At the core, a beatmap consists of [hit objects](/wiki/Hit_object) of a certain [game mode](/wiki/Game_mode), which are set up according to [timing](/wiki/Glossary#timing-section) tailored to a specific song. Beatmaps have different aspects, which directly affect user experience.

The hit objects of a beatmap compose [patterns](Pattern), which also vary per game mode and set the tone for overall difficulty, and how a beatmap should be played. The process of playing the beatmap is altered by various [difficulty settings](/wiki/Beatmap_Editor/Song_Setup#difficulty) used by the beatmap's author and [game modifiers](/wiki/Game_modifier) toggled by a player.

From the auditory perspective, a beatmap can augment the song by providing one or multiple sets of audio samples, or [hitsounds](/wiki/Beatmapping/Hitsound), that serve as an additional layer of feedback.

Visual components of a beatmap, contrary to its patterns, provide auxiliary experience during gameplay and can be disabled in the [visual settings](/wiki/Visual_Settings) popup for the most part. They include:

> - [Background imagery](Background) and video, which both can act as a playfield;
> - [Kiai time](/wiki/Kiai_time) and [combo colours](/wiki/Glossary/Combo_colour) that help distinguish different beatmap sections from each other;
> - [Storyboard](/wiki/Storyboards) that adds motion graphics and special effects, or provides a background story or theme for the song;
> - [Custom skin](/wiki/Skinning), which changes the appearance of interface and gameplay elements;
> - [Title text](Title_Text), which presents the song's metadata.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [background imagery](Background) and video, which both can act as a playfield;
- [Kiai time](/wiki/Kiai_time) and [combo colours](/wiki/Glossary/Combo_colour) that help distinguish different beatmap sections from each other;
- [storyboard](/wiki/Storyboards) that adds motion graphics and special effects, or provides a background story or theme for the song;
- [custom skin](/wiki/Skinning), which changes the appearance of interface and gameplay elements;
- [title text](Title_Text), which presents the song's metadata.
```

Author: shouldn't these be in sentence case? aldo, why is kiai time left out, is it a proper noun?

Reviewer: i think they shouldnt be capitalized as the list is placed after a colon suggesting enumeration

about kiai, i thought it was a proper noun but it may actually be decapitalized i guess ¯\_(ツ)_/¯

## Beatmapsets

*Main article: [Beatmapsets](Beatmapsets)*

> On a higher level, beatmaps are grouped into [beatmapsets](Beatmapsets) and then [submitted](/wiki/Glossary#bss) to the [beatmap listing](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets). Each beatmapset typically covers one song and holds together several beatmaps with different object placement and gameplay settings. In this context, a beatmap is called a [difficulty](/wiki/Difficulties).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On a higher level, beatmaps are grouped into [beatmapsets](Beatmapsets), and then [submitted](/wiki/Glossary#bss) to the [beatmap listing](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets). Each beatmapset typically covers one song and holds together several beatmaps with different object placement and gameplay settings. In this context, a beatmap is called a [difficulty](/wiki/Difficulties).
```

> While every beatmapset is attributed to [a single person](Beatmapsets/Beatmapset_host), it is often a joint effort: some difficulties may be done by other people working [in collaboration](Beatmap_collaborations) or [separately](Beatmapsets/Guest_difficulty).

Reviewer: i think this line can be removed in order not to repeat the same information as in the `Beatmapsets` article

Author: I consider it important enough to be mentioned here as well, at least briefly

Submitted beatmaps may also become [ranked](#ranked) and receive their own leaderboard, for which they have to go through the [ranking procedure](/wiki/Beatmap_ranking_procedure).

## Downloading beatmaps

Beatmaps can be obtained through a few different ways:

### Beatmap listing

> Beatmaps from various categories are available from the [beatmap listing](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets) on the web site. They can be filtered according to certain conditions (for example, beatmaps from [osu!standard](/wiki/Game_mode/osu!) made by a certain mapper) and then downloaded one by one. [osu!supporters](/wiki/osu!supporter) have access to an extended set of filters, such as ability to see beatmaps where they achieved a certain rank.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Beatmaps from various categories are available from the [beatmap listing](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets) on the website. They can be filtered according to certain conditions (e.g. beatmaps from [osu!taiko](/wiki/Game_mode/osu!) created by a certain mapper), and then downloaded one by one. [osu!supporters](/wiki/osu!supporter) have access to an extended set of filters, such as an ability to see beatmaps on which they achieved a certain rank.
```

### osu!direct

> osu!direct is the beatmap listing built into the game client, which is used for quick access and provides a set of features similar to the listing on the website. It is available to [osu!supporters](/wiki/osu!supporter) only.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
osu!direct is the beatmap listing built into the game client, which is used for quick access and provides a set of features similar to the listing on the website. It is only available to the [osu!supporters](/wiki/osu!supporter).
```

### Beatmap packs

*Main article: [Beatmap Packs](Packs)*

> Beatmapsets that were ranked during the same month, or share the same theme (for example, the same artist), are packed for bulk download into archives, which are called beatmap packs. The list of all official packs is available on the [website](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmaps/packs).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Beatmapsets that were ranked in the same month, or share the same theme (e.g. the same artist), are packed for bulk download into archives, which are called the beatmap packs. The list of all official packs is available on the [website](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmaps/packs).
```

### Unofficial sources

> There also exist secondary sources of beatmaps, which are **not checked and not operated by osu!team**. Still, they are available on the forums and appreciated by the community. Such sources include:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are also secondary sources of beatmaps, which are **neither checked nor operated by the osu!team**. However, they are available on the forums and appreciated by the community. Such sources include:
```

> - Third-party beatmap mirrors hosted off the platform;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- third-party beatmap mirrors hosted off a platform;
```

> - Player-made packs and compilations shared via [p2p-networks](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peer-to-peer "Wikipedia: Peer-to-peer") such as BitTorrent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- player-made packs and compilations shared via [p2p-networks](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peer-to-peer "Wikipedia"), such as BitTorrent.
```

Author: I always wanted to ask what's the point of using just a website's title if you can already see the domain name it points to?

Reviewer 2: > I always wanted to ask what's the point of using just a website's title if you can already see the domain name it points to?

Clarification? I think it has something to do with making sure that readers know what website the linked text belongs to in case the text is the name of the article and/or if the domain name changes iirc

Reviewer: i guess we decided to add external site names to the title text sometime ago, there should be a convo in the discord somewhere for this i think?

Reviewer 2: > i guess we decided to add external site names to the title text sometime ago, there should be a convo in the discord somewhere for this i think?

just a did quick search. You are correct https://discord.com/channels/188630481301012481/218677502141399041/280008835207397387

Author: uhh alright I'll go with that for now

## Beatmaps and community

### Leaderboards

osu! players across all game modes use beatmaps to [rank up globally](/wiki/Performance_points) and [compete against each other](/wiki/Ranking). osu! has different types of beatmap-specific leaderboards, all of which, except the first one, are only available to [osu!supporters](/wiki/osu!supporter):

- Global ranking, which works across the active playerbase;
- Global ranking for every combination of [game modifiers](/wiki/Game_modifier);
- Country-specific ranking made of players bearing the same flag;
- Friend ranking that shows a player's position on the map compared to their friends.

### Charts and Spotlights

<!-- TODO(TicClick): charts, as well as Chart Assembly Team, need to be referenced here when they receive a dedicated article (issue #4685) -->

<!-- TODO(TicClick): would be very cool to have a separate article for osu!lazer as well (issue #4686) -->

*Main article: [Beatmap Spotlights](/wiki/Beatmap_Spotlights)*

> Since its early days, the community has had various ways to showcase unique and excellent maps. One of the first documented approaches was monthly and seasonal charts consisting of a small subset of ranked beatmaps, where every month's top players from leaderboards displaying total score across these maps would be awarded with [osu!supporter](/wiki/osu!supporter).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since its early days, the community has had various ways to showcase unique and excellent maps. One of the first documented approaches were monthly and seasonal charts consisting of a small subset of ranked beatmaps, where top players from leaderboards displaying total score across these maps would be awarded with [osu!supporter](/wiki/osu!supporter).
```

The chart system has later evolved into the [Beatmap Spotlights](/wiki/Beatmap_Spotlights) project, which now operates on similar conditions, but takes place in osu!lazer's playlists instead.

### Beatmap contests

*Main page: [Contests](/wiki/Contests)*

> osu! community regularly runs different contests in order to promote creativity and award mappers who do their best. Contests range from small competitions, which are made inside local communities, to large ones that are conducted on a global scale and have breathtaking prizes. Winners often receive awards in form of [osu!supporter](/wiki/osu!supporter) and a themed profile badge.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
osu! community regularly runs different contests in order to promote creativity and award mappers who do their best. Contests range from small competitions, which are made inside local communities, to large ones that are conducted on a global scale and have breathtaking prizes. Winners often receive awards in form of [osu!supporter tags](/wiki/osu!supporter) and a themed profile badge.
```

### Featured Artists

*Main page: [Featured Artists](/wiki/Featured_Artists)*

> Featured Artists is a community program by [osu!team](/wiki/People/The_Team) that focuses on licensing music by various artists for osu! and making it available for mapping. The website's [featured artist listing](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmaps/artists) showcases each involved artist and provides a pre-timed template for mapping.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Featured Artists is a community program by [osu!team](/wiki/People/The_Team) that focuses on licensing music by various artists for osu! and making it available for mapping. The website's [featured artist listing](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmaps/artists) showcases each involved artist and provides pre-timed templates for mapping.
```

- [Work in Progress / Pending](#work-in-progress-and-pending)
- [Qualified](#qualified)
- [Ranked](#ranked)
- [Approved](#approved)
- [Loved](#loved)

### Graveyard

Graveyarded beatmaps are beatmaps that have been abandoned by their creator. Beatmaps are moved to the Graveyard category from the [Work in Progress and Pending](#work-in-progress-and-pending) categories automatically once they haven't been updated for 4 weeks. Graveyarded beatmaps do not have leaderboards. However, they can still be downloaded and played like normal. They use the question mark icon (![](/wiki/shared/status/graveyard.png)) in the song selection screen<!-- TODO: link -->.

> After [August 7, 2020](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/changelog/stable40/20200807.3), beatmaps from Graveyard, as well as [Work in Progress and Pending](#work-in-progress-and-pending), started contributing to users' play count and total score. They also received play statistics on their individual pages (play count, success rate, and points of failure), which was only shown before for beatmaps from [Qualified](#qualified) and [Ranked](#ranked).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After [7 August 2020](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/changelog/stable40/20200807.3), beatmaps from Graveyard, as well as [Work in Progress and Pending](#work-in-progress-and-pending), started contributing to users' play count and total score. They also received play statistics on their individual pages (play count, success rate, and points of failure), which was only shown before for beatmaps from [Qualified](#qualified) and [Ranked](#ranked).
```

Once a beatmap is graveyarded, it can be revived (i.e. brought back to [Pending](#work-in-progress-and-pending)). This can be done by updating the beatmap via the [beatmap submission system](/wiki/Glossary#bss).

### Work in Progress and Pending

Work in Progress (commonly initialised as *WIP*) and Pending are the two categories beatmaps are put into on initial submission. Beatmaps in these categories can move to the [Qualified](#qualified) category upon [nomination](/wiki/Beatmap_ranking_procedure#nominations) by at least two [Beatmap Nominators](/wiki/People/The_Team/Beatmap_Nominators). This usually includes a great amount of feedback from [modders](/wiki/Glossary#modder) through [modding](/wiki/Modding). Work in Progress and Pending beatmaps do not have leaderboards. They use the question mark icon (![](/wiki/shared/status/pending.png)) in the song selection screen.

> After [August 7, 2020](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/changelog/stable40/20200807.3), beatmaps from Work in Progress and Pending, as well as [Graveyard](#graveyard), started contributing to users' play count and total score. They also received play statistics on their individual pages (play count, success rate, and points of failure), which was only shown before for beatmaps from [Qualified](#qualified) and [Ranked](#ranked).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After [7 August 2020](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/changelog/stable40/20200807.3), beatmaps from Work in Progress and Pending, as well as [Graveyard](#graveyard), started contributing to users' play count and total score. They also received play statistics on their individual pages (play count, success rate, and points of failure), which was only shown before for beatmaps from [Qualified](#qualified) and [Ranked](#ranked).
```
